When your child’s immune system
detects a harmful substance or infection,
it responds to protect
your child’s body.
Allergies occur when the immune system
reacts to a harmless substance
as if it were harmful.
An allergic reaction does not occur
with the first exposure to a substance.
Your child’s body must have been
exposed at least once before.
After one allergic reaction,
further contact with the substance
produces another reaction.
Substances that produce allergies
are called allergens.
Common ones include mold,
animal dander, dust and dust mites,
latex, medicines, insect stings, and foods.
Some allergens like mold and pollen
are carried through the air.
These allergens cause hay fever
and its symptoms of sneezing,
watery eyes, and a stuffy
or runny nose.
Touching an irritant can cause
allergic skin reactions.
Common causes of a skin allergy
include hair or skin care products,
metals in jewelry such as nickel,
fabric dyes, and poison ivy.
Symptoms include itching, swelling,
and a rash or hives.
Allergies can also cause wheezing,
stomach cramps and diarrhea.